.TH ATT-GATEWAY-CHECK 8 "March 2026" "att-gateway-check 0.1.2" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
att-gateway-check \- AT&T BGW320-500 Gateway Configuration Manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B att-gateway-check
[\fB\-c\fR \fIconfig\fR]
\fIcommand\fR
[\fIoptions\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B att-gateway-check
monitors, backs up, and restores configuration on AT&T residential gateways (BGW320-500 model). It automatically detects and fixes configuration changes caused by AT&T firmware updates, which frequently wipe settings like public subnet configuration and fixed IP allocations.
.PP
The tool runs as a systemd service with a timer, checking configuration every 30 minutes by default. When misconfigurations are detected, they are automatically corrected and logged.
.PP
.B Features:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Firmware version detection and adaptation
.IP \(bu 2
Continuous monitoring with auto-fix
.IP \(bu 2
Comprehensive configuration backups
.IP \(bu 2
Selective or full restore capability
.IP \(bu 2
Automatic page discovery
.IP \(bu 2
Backup retention management
.RE
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.BR check " [" \-\-no\-fix "]"
Check gateway configuration and optionally fix issues. This is the default command when run via systemd timer. Returns exit code 0 if all checks pass, 1 if fixes were applied, or 2 if errors occurred.
.IP
\fB\-\-no\-fix\fR disables automatic fixing, making this a read-only check.
.TP
.BR backup " [" \-\-discover "]"
Create a backup of all gateway configuration to JSON format. Backups are stored in /var/lib/att_gateway/backups/ with timestamps.
.IP
\fB\-\-discover\fR forces re-discovery of gateway pages before backup.
.TP
.BR restore " [" \-\-backup " \fItimestamp\fR] [" \-\-page " \fIpage\fR] [" \-\-dry\-run "]"
Restore gateway configuration from a backup. Without options, restores from the most recent backup.
.IP
\fB\-\-backup\fR \fItimestamp\fR specifies which backup to restore (format: YYYY-MM-DD-HHMMSS)
.IP
\fB\-\-page\fR \fIpage\fR restores only a specific page (e.g., /cgi-bin/dhcpserver.ha)
.IP
\fB\-\-dry\-run\fR shows what would change without actually applying changes
.TP
.BR discover " [" \-\-force "]"
Discover all accessible configuration pages on the gateway. Results are cached for 7 days.
.IP
\fB\-\-force\fR ignores cache and performs fresh discovery
.TP
.B list-backups
List all available backups with timestamps, firmware versions, and sizes.
.TP
.BR diff-backup " [" \fItimestamp\fR "]"
Show differences between current gateway configuration and a backup. Without a timestamp, compares with the most recent backup.
.TP
.B gateway-info
Show gateway firmware version and handler information.
.TP
.B version
Show program version.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-config " \fIfile\fR"
Use alternate configuration file (default: /etc/att_gateway/att_gateway.conf)
.SH CONFIGURATION
Configuration is stored in INI format at
.IR /etc/att_gateway/att_gateway.conf .
The file is never included in the package or git repository for security.
.SS Sections
.TP
.B [gateway]
Gateway connection settings.
.RS
.IP \fBhost\fR
Gateway IP address or hostname (default: 192.168.1.254)
.IP \fBpassword\fR
Gateway admin password (required)
.IP \fBfirmware_version\fR
Pin to specific firmware version, or "auto" for detection (default: auto)
.RE
.TP
.B [check]
Check mode settings.
.RS
.IP \fBenabled\fR
Enable check mode (default: true)
.IP \fBauto_fix\fR
Automatically fix misconfigurations (default: true)
.RE
.TP
.B [check:public_subnet]
Public subnet monitoring. Set \fBenabled = false\fR to disable.
.RS
.IP \fBpubsub\fR
Public subnet enabled (on/off)
.IP \fBain\fR
Additional IP network (on/off)
.IP \fBpubipaddr\fR
Public subnet IP address
.IP \fBpubmask\fR
Public subnet mask
.IP \fBpubdhcpstart\fR
DHCP range start
.IP \fBpubdhcpend\fR
DHCP range end
.IP \fBprimpool\fR
Primary pool (private/public)
.RE
.TP
.B [check:ip_allocations]
Fixed IP allocation monitoring. Set \fBenabled = false\fR to disable.
Format: \fBmac_address = ip_address\fR
.TP
.B [backup]
Backup settings.
.RS
.IP \fBenabled\fR
Enable backup mode (default: true)
.IP \fBdirectory\fR
Backup storage directory (default: /var/lib/att_gateway/backups)
.IP \fBretention_count\fR
Keep at most this many backups (default: 30)
.IP \fBretention_days\fR
Keep backups for at most this many days (default: 90)
.RE
.TP
.B [compatibility]
Firmware compatibility settings.
.RS
.IP \fBwarn_on_unknown_version\fR
Warn about unknown firmware (default: true)
.IP \fBauto_backup_on_firmware_change\fR
Automatic backup on version change (default: true)
.IP \fBstrict_version_check\fR
Fail on unknown firmware (default: false)
.RE
.TP
.B [logging]
Logging configuration.
.RS
.IP \fBlevel\fR
Log level: DEBUG, INFO, WARNING, ERROR (default: INFO)
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/att_gateway/att_gateway.conf
Main configuration file (not included in package)
.TP
.I /etc/att_gateway/att_gateway.conf.template
Configuration template with examples
.TP
.I /var/lib/att_gateway/backups/
Backup storage directory
.TP
.I /var/lib/att_gateway/pages.json
Discovered pages cache
.TP
.I /var/lib/att_gateway/gateway_info.json
Cached gateway information including firmware version
.TP
.I /usr/local/share/att-gateway-check/firmware_versions.json
Firmware version compatibility matrix
.TP
.I /etc/systemd/system/att-gateway-check.service
Systemd service unit
.TP
.I /etc/systemd/system/att-gateway-check.timer
Systemd timer unit (runs every 30 minutes)
.SH SYSTEMD INTEGRATION
The service runs automatically via systemd timer. Common operations:
.PP
Check timer status:
.RS
systemctl status att-gateway-check.timer
.RE
.PP
See when timer will run next:
.RS
systemctl list-timers att-gateway-check.timer
.RE
.PP
View logs:
.RS
journalctl -u att-gateway-check.service
.br
journalctl -u att-gateway-check.service -f
.RE
.PP
Manually trigger a run:
.RS
systemctl start att-gateway-check.service
.RE
.PP
Adjust timer interval (create override):
.RS
systemctl edit att-gateway-check.timer
.RE
.PP
Example override to run every 15 minutes:
.RS
[Timer]
.br
OnUnitActiveSec=15min
.RE
.PP
After editing timer, restart it:
.RS
systemctl restart att-gateway-check.timer
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
All checks passed, no issues found
.TP
.B 1
Issues found and fixes were applied successfully
.TP
.B 2
Errors occurred, some checks/fixes failed
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Basic Operations
Check gateway configuration with auto-fix:
.RS
att-gateway-check check
.RE
.PP
Check without fixing (read-only):
.RS
att-gateway-check check --no-fix
.RE
.PP
Create a backup:
.RS
att-gateway-check backup
.RE
.PP
List available backups:
.RS
att-gateway-check list-backups
.RE
.SS Restore Operations
Restore from latest backup (dry-run):
.RS
att-gateway-check restore --dry-run
.RE
.PP
Restore from latest backup:
.RS
att-gateway-check restore
.RE
.PP
Restore from specific backup:
.RS
att-gateway-check restore --backup 2026-03-17-143000
.RE
.PP
Restore only DHCP settings:
.RS
att-gateway-check restore --page /cgi-bin/dhcpserver.ha
.RE
.PP
Compare current config with backup:
.RS
att-gateway-check diff-backup
.RE
.SS Discovery
Discover all gateway pages:
.RS
att-gateway-check discover
.RE
.PP
Force re-discovery (ignore cache):
.RS
att-gateway-check discover --force
.RE
.SS Monitoring
View recent logs:
.RS
journalctl -u att-gateway-check.service -n 50
.RE
.PP
Follow logs in real-time:
.RS
journalctl -u att-gateway-check.service -f
.RE
.PP
Show gateway firmware version:
.RS
att-gateway-check gateway-info
.RE
.SH FIRMWARE COMPATIBILITY
The tool automatically detects AT&T gateway firmware version and uses version-specific handlers for parsing and form submission. When AT&T updates the firmware and breaks things:
.IP 1. 4
Tool detects version change and logs prominently
.IP 2. 4
Automatic backup is triggered
.IP 3. 4
Tool attempts to work with default handler
.IP 4. 4
New version handler can be added if needed
.PP
Currently tested firmware versions:
.IP \(bu 2
6.34.7 (March 2026) - Fully supported
.PP
Report new firmware versions at:
.br
https://github.com/permittivity2/att-home-router-automation/issues
.SH SECURITY
.IP \(bu 2
Configuration file must have restrictive permissions (640)
.IP \(bu 2
Service runs as non-root user (att-gateway)
.IP \(bu 2
Never commit real passwords or IP addresses to git
.IP \(bu 2
Backups may contain sensitive data - protect backup directory
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR systemctl (1),
.BR journalctl (1),
.BR systemd.timer (5),
.BR systemd.service (5)
.PP
Project homepage:
.br
https://github.com/permittivity2/att-home-router-automation
.SH AUTHOR
Gardner <gardner@homelab>
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at:
.br
https://github.com/permittivity2/att-home-router-automation/issues
